.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: AGPL-3.0-or-later
.\" SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Jonathan D.A. Jewell
.\"
.\" reposystem.1 - Manual page for reposystem
.\"
.TH REPOSYSTEM 1 "December 2025" "reposystem 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
reposystem \- railway yard for your repository ecosystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B reposystem
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B reposystem
is a visual wiring layer for multi-repo component management with aspect
tagging and scenario comparison. It treats your repository ecosystem as a
railway yard: repos as yards, dependencies as tracks, and component switches
as points.
.PP
Key capabilities:
.IP \(bu 2
Import and visualize repository connections
.IP \(bu 2
Switch between component providers (local/ecosystem/fallback)
.IP \(bu 2
Tag dependencies with aspects (security, reliability, performance)
.IP \(bu 2
Compare configuration scenarios before committing
.IP \(bu 2
Export to DOT/Graphviz, JSON, and other formats
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B scan \fIPATH\fR
Scan repositories at PATH and build dependency graph.
.TP
.B view
Launch interactive TUI to explore the ecosystem graph.
.TP
.B export \fB\-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR [\fB\-o\fR \fIFILE\fR]
Export graph to specified format (dot, json, yaml, toml).
.TP
.B group \fIACTION\fR \fINAME\fR [\fIREPOS\fR...]
Manage repository groups. Actions: create, delete, add, remove, list.
.TP
.B aspect \fB\-\-filter\fR \fIASPECT\fR
Filter view by aspect (security, reliability, performance, supply-chain).
.TP
.B scenario \fIACTION\fR \fINAME\fR
Manage scenarios. Actions: create, delete, switch, compare.
.TP
.B weak-links \fB\-\-aspect\fR \fIASPECT\fR
Identify weak links in the ecosystem for a given aspect.
.TP
.B config \fIKEY\fR [\fIVALUE\fR]
Get or set configuration values.
.TP
.B completions \fISHELL\fR
Generate shell completions (bash, zsh, fish, powershell).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Print help information.
.TP
.B \-V, \-\-version
Print version information.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
Increase verbosity (can be repeated: -vv, -vvv).
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Decrease verbosity.
.TP
.B \-c, \-\-config \fIFILE\fR
Use alternate configuration file.
.TP
.B \-\-data\-dir \fIDIR\fR
Override data directory.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-color
Disable colored output.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output in JSON format (where applicable).
.SH TUI KEYBINDINGS
.TP
.B 1, 2, 3, 4
Switch view mode (Graph, List, Detail, Scenario).
.TP
.B h, j, k, l
Navigate (vim-style).
.TP
.B a, s, r, p
Filter by aspect (All, Security, Reliability, Performance).
.TP
.B Enter
Select/activate item.
.TP
.B /
Search.
.TP
.B ?
Show help.
.TP
.B q
Quit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
Configuration is stored in:
.PP
.nf
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/reposystem/config.toml
~/.config/reposystem/config.toml (fallback)
.fi
.PP
Or specified via Nickel:
.PP
.nf
$XDG_CONFIG_HOME/reposystem/config.ncl
.fi
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B REPOSYSTEM_DATA_DIR
Override default data directory.
.TP
.B REPOSYSTEM_CONFIG
Path to configuration file.
.TP
.B REPOSYSTEM_LOG
Log level (trace, debug, info, warn, error).
.TP
.B NO_COLOR
Disable colored output if set.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.local/share/reposystem/
Default data directory containing ecosystem state.
.TP
.I ~/.cache/reposystem/
Cache directory for graph computations.
.TP
.I ~/.config/reposystem/config.toml
User configuration file.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Scan repositories and view the graph:
.PP
.nf
$ reposystem scan ~/repos
$ reposystem view
.fi
.PP
Export ecosystem to DOT and render as SVG:
.PP
.nf
$ reposystem export --format dot -o ecosystem.dot
$ dot -Tsvg ecosystem.dot -o ecosystem.svg
.fi
.PP
Identify security weak links:
.PP
.nf
$ reposystem weak-links --aspect security
.fi
.PP
Compare two scenarios:
.PP
.nf
$ reposystem scenario create baseline
$ reposystem scenario create proposed --base baseline
$ reposystem scenario modify proposed --switch mylib:external
$ reposystem scenario compare baseline proposed
.fi
.SH INTEGRATION
.SS TortoiseGit
.PP
Enable context menu integration:
.PP
.nf
$ reposystem integrations install tortoisegit
.fi
.SS IDE Plugins
.PP
.nf
$ reposystem integrations install vscode
$ reposystem integrations install jetbrains
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR dot (1),
.BR graphviz (7)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/hyperpolymath/reposystem/issues
.SH AUTHOR
Jonathan D.A. Jewell <hyperpolymath>
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 Jonathan D.A. Jewell.
License AGPL-3.0-or-later.
.PP
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
